[2024] 3 S.C.R. 454 : 2024 INSC 201
Snehadeep Structures Pvt. Limited 
v. 
Maharashtra Small Scale Industries Development 
Corporation Ltd.
(Civil Appeal No. 3856 of 2024)
05 March 2024
[Sanjiv Khanna and Dipankar Datta, JJ.]
Issue for Consideration
High Court whether justified in setting aside the arbitral 
award and holding that Maharashtra Small Scale Industries 
Development Corporation Ltd. (MSSIDCL) cannot be said to be 
a buyer within the meaning of Interest on Delayed Payments 
to Small Scale and Ancillary Industrial Undertakings Act, 1993 
and therefore, the appellant (SSPL) was not entitled to claim 
interest under the 1993 Act against MSSIDCL; whether the 
proviso to s.3, 1993 Act would be applicable to the agreement 
in question entered into between the parties on 30.03.1995, 
albeit the proviso was enacted and enforced with effect from 
10.08.1998.
Headnotes
Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary 
Industrial Undertakings Act, 1993 – s.2(b), (c), (f); proviso 
to s.3; s.4 – “buyer”; “supplier” – Liability of buyer to make 
payment – Date from which and rate at which interest is 
payable:
Held: On a reading of s.3 of the 1993 Act, as it stood before the 
enactment of the proviso, the buyer and the supplier could agree 
upon the date of payment – In case of absence of stipulation with 
regard to the date of payment, the “appointed day” in terms of 
s.2(b) of the 1993 Act, would be the date, on which the payment 
is due – This is also clear from reading s.4, which states the 
date from which interest is payable – As per s.4, the buyer is 
liable to pay interest if he fails to pay the amount to the supplier 
as required by s.3 – After enactment of the proviso to s.3, the 
contractual rights of the parties to agree to the date of payment, 
have been restricted in terms of the said proviso – Thus, if the 
contractual date of payment exceeds 120 days from the day of 
[2024] 3 S.C.R.  455
Snehadeep Structures Pvt. Limited v. Maharashtra Small Scale 
Industries Development Corporation Ltd.
acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance, interest would 
be payable for the period beyond 120 days from the day of 
acceptance or the date of deemed acceptance – In the present 
case, the supply/purchase order dated 30.03.1995 issued by 
MSSIDCL to SSPL, postulated and the parties had agreed that 
MSSIDCL would be liable to pay SSPL only after the goods 
were delivered and accepted by the consignee-Maharashtra 
State Electricity Board (MSEB) and on the payment being 
received by MSSIDCL from the MSEB – No reason to interfere 
with the conclusion in the impugned judgment passed by the 
High Court, setting aside the arbitral award – Further, by way 
of Act No.23 of 1998, which came in effect from 10.08.1998, 
amending clause 2(f), MSSIDCL is to be treated or deemed to 
be a supplier to MSEB – However, this will not deviate from the 
fact that MSSIDCL was the buyer under the supply/purchase 
order dated 30.03.1995 issued by MSSIDCL to SSPL – Equally, 
the G.O. 2(1)/A/93- SSI Bd. and Policy dated 05.05.1993 issued 
by the Ministry of Industry, Department of SSI, Agro and Rural 
Industries, Office of the Development Commissioner (Small Scale 
Industries), had an effect of treating MSSIDCL as a supplier for 
the purpose of claiming interest from the buyer, that is MSEB, 
with whom they have entered into a contract for the purpose of 
the 1993 Act – The liability to pay and the privity of contract in 
terms of the supply/purchase order dated 30.03.1995 is between 
MSSIDCL and SSPL – The contractual relationship, rights and 
obligations inter se MSSIDCL and SSPL do not undergo any 
change. [Paras 6, 8-10, 13, 14]
List of Acts
Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary Industrial 
Undertakings Act, 1993; Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
List of Keywords
“Buyer”; “Supplier”; Interest; Date of payment; Appointed date, 
Acceptance date; Deemed date of acceptance; Small scale Industries.
Case Arising From
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.3856 of 2024
From the Judgment and Order dated 26.03.2018 of the High Court 
of Judicature at Bombay in AN No. 203 of 2017
456 [2024] 3 S.C.R.
Digital Supreme Court Reports
Appearances for Parties
Ranjit Kumar, Siddharth Bhatnagar, Sr. Advs., Ms. Tahira Karanjawala, 
Arjun Sharma, Shreyas Maheshwari, Ms. Sukanya Das, Aditya Sidhra, 
M/s. Karanjawala & Co., Advs. for the Appellant.
Dr. S. Muralidhar, Sr. Adv., Zubin Morris, Nirav Shah, Udit Gupta, 
Ms. Prachi Gupta, Ms. Pragya Gupta, Ms. Pallak Bhagat, M/s. Udit 
Kishan And Associates, Advs. for the Respondent.
Judgment / Order of the Supreme Court
Judgment
Leave granted. 
2. We have heard learned Senior Advocate appearing for the appellant 
– Snehadeep Structures Pvt. Limited1 and the Respondent - 
Maharashtra Small Scale Industries Development Corporation Ltd.2 
3. During the course of the hearing, our attention was drawn to Sections 
3, 4 and 5 of the Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale 
and Ancillary Industrial Undertakings Act, 19933. For the sake of 
convenience, the said Sections are reproduced below: -
“3. Liability of buyer to make payment.- Where any supplier 
supplies any goods or renders any services to any buyer, 
the buyer shall make payment therefor on or before the 
date agreed upon between him and the supplier in writing 
or, where there is no agreement in this behalf, before the 
appointed day: 
Provided that in no case the period agreed upon between 
the supplier and the buyer in writing shall exceed one 
hundred and twenty days from the day of acceptance or 
the day of deemed acceptance.
4. Date from which and rate at which interest is payable.- 
Where any buyer fails to make payment of the amount to 
the supplier, as required under section 3, the buyer shall, 
1 For short, “SSPL”.
2 For short, “MSSIDCL”.
3 For short, “1993 Act”.
[2024] 3 S.C.R.  457
Snehadeep Structures Pvt. Limited v. Maharashtra Small Scale 
Industries Development Corporation Ltd.
notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement 
between the buyer and the supplier or in any law for the 
time being in force, be liable to pay interest to the supplier 
on that amount from the appointed day or, as the case may 
be, from the date immediately following the date agreed 
upon, at one-and-half time of Prime Lending Rate charged 
by the State Bank of India.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this section, “Prime 
Lending Rate” means the Prime Lending Rate of the State 
Bank of India which is available to the best borrowers of 
the bank.
5. Liability of buyer to pay compound interest.- 
Notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement 
between a supplier and a buyer or in any law for the time 
being in force, the buyer shall be liable to pay compound 
interest (with monthly interest) at the rate mentioned in 
section 4 on the amount due to the supplier.”
4. We would also reproduce the definition clauses (b), (c) and (f) to 
Section 2, which are applicable, unless the context otherwise requires. 
The same read thus: -
(b) “appointed day” means the day following immediately 
after the expiry of the period of thirty days from the day 
of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance of any 
goods or any services by a buyer from a supplier;
Explanation. -For the purposes of this clause,-
(i) “the day of acceptance” means,-
(a) the day of the actual delivery of goods or the rendering 
of services; or
(b) where any objection is made in writing by the buyer 
regarding, acceptance of goods or services within 
thirty days from the day of the delivery, of goods or 
the rendering of services, the day on which such 
objection is removed by the supplier;
(ii) “the day of deemed acceptance” means, where no objection 
is made in writing by the buyer regarding acceptance of 
458 [2024] 3 S.C.R.
Digital Supreme Court Reports
goods or services within thirty days from the day of the 
delivery of goods or the rendering of services, the day of 
the actual delivery of goods or the rendering of services;
(c) “buyer” means whoever buys any goods or receives 
any services from a supplier for consideration;
xxx    xxx    xxx
(f) “supplier” means an ancillary industrial undertaking or 
a small scale industrial undertaking holding a permanent 
registration certificate issued by the Directorate of Industries 
of a State or Union territory and includes,-
(i) the National Small Industries Corporation, being a company, 
registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);
(ii) the Small Industries Development Corporation of a State 
or a Union territory, by whatever name called, being a 
company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 
of 1956).”
5. The proviso to Section 3, and the amendment to Section 2(f) to 
include the addition of National Small Industries Corporation and 
the Small Industries Development Corporation of a State or a Union 
Territory to the definition of “supplier”, were incorporated by Act No. 
23 of 1998 with effect from 10.08.1998. 
6. On a reading of Section 3 of the 1993 Act, as it stood before the 
enactment of the proviso, the buyer and the supplier could agree 
upon the date of payment. In case of absence of stipulation with 
regard to the date of payment, the “appointed day” in terms of Section 
2(b) of the 1993 Act, would be the date, on which the payment is 
due. This is also clear from reading Section 4, which states the 
date from which interest is payable. As per Section 4, the buyer is 
liable to pay interest if he fails to pay the amount to the supplier as 
required by Section 3. Non-obstante part of Section 4 only deals 
with the stipulation in a contract whereby liability to pay interest is 
barred/prohibited. It does not, in any way, override the contractual 
clause with regard to the date of payment. In other words, in case the 
contract states that interest will not be payable even in the case of 
belated payment, then Section 4 of the Act will come into operation, 
overriding the negative contractual clause.
[2024] 3 S.C.R.  459
Snehadeep Structures Pvt. Limited v. Maharashtra Small Scale 
Industries Development Corporation Ltd.
7. The effect of the proviso to Section 3, made applicable with effect 
from 10.08.1998, is that the supplier and the buyer may agree by 
contract on the date of payment, but in no case can the date of 
payment exceed 120 days from the day of acceptance or the day of 
deemed acceptance. The terms ‘the appointed date’, ‘the acceptance 
date’ and ‘the deemed date of acceptance’ have been defined vide 
clause (b) to Section 2 of the 1993 Act.
8. After enactment of the proviso to Section 3, the contractual rights 
of the parties to agree to the date of payment, have been restricted 
in terms of the said proviso. In other words, if the contractual date 
of payment exceeds 120 days from the day of acceptance or the 
day of deemed acceptance, interest would be payable for the period 
beyond 120 days from the day of acceptance or the date of deemed 
acceptance.
9. When we turn to the facts of the present case, the supply/purchase 
order dated 30.03.1995 issued by MSSIDCL to SSPL, had stated 
as under: -
“25. The price of the goods delivered and accepted by 
the consignee and when received from the consignee 
will be paid to the supplier by the Corporation subject to 
deductions of advances, if any, paid by the Corporation 
and the service changes [sic] and other moneys payable 
to the Corporation by the supplier. No advance payment 
will be made for any supply of the goods unless otherwise 
agreed by the Corporation.”
10. The contract had, therefore, postulated and the parties had agreed 
that MSSIDCL would be liable to pay SSPL only after the goods are 
delivered and accepted by the consignee, namely, Maharashtra State 
Electricity Board4 and on the payment being received by MSSIDCL 
from the MSEB.
11. If the proviso to Section 3 applies, this contractual clause will get 
modified in terms of the proviso to Section 3, which has fixed the 
upper time limit for payment to 120 days from the day of acceptance 
or the day of deemed acceptance. However, the question would 
4 For short, “MSEB”.
460 [2024] 3 S.C.R.
Digital Supreme Court Reports
arise as to whether the said proviso  would be applicable to the 
agreement in question, which was entered into between the parties 
on 30.03.1995, albeit the proviso was enacted and enforced with 
effect from 10.08.1998.
12. Even if, for the sake of argument, it is to be accepted that the proviso  
to Section 3 would be applicable in respect of supplies or payments 
due or payable after 10.08.1998, the issue with regard to calculation 
and computation of interest requires examination and determination of 
the day of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance, as interest 
would be payable only after a period of 120 days from such date.
13. In these circumstances and in view of the aforesaid position, we do 
not find any good ground and reason to interfere with the conclusion 
in the impugned judgment passed by the Division Bench of the High 
Court, setting aside the arbitral award dated 30.06.2003. We would, 
however, record that the award having been set aside, the provisions 
of Section 43(4) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 would 
come into operation and would accordingly apply.
14. We clarify that MSEB need not be a party to the proceedings, if 
any, which may be initiated by SSPL or MSSIDCL. However, any 
adjudication for payment of interest under Sections 3 to 5 of 1993 
Act, including the question relating to application of the proviso , 
would require ascertainment of the appointed date, the date of 
acceptance or the deemed date of acceptance. To this limited 
extent, ascertainment of facts with reference to the consignee – 
MSEB, to whom the goods were supplied by SSPL, is required. By 
way of Act No.23 of 1998, which came in effect from 10.08.1998, 
amending clause 2(f), MSSIDCL is to be treated or deemed to be 
a supplier to MSEB. However, this will not deviate from the fact 
that MSSIDCL was the buyer under the supply/purchase order 
dated 30.03.1995 issued by MSSIDCL to SSPL. Equally, the G.O. 
2(1)/A/93-SSI Bd. and Policy dated 05.05.1993 issued by the Ministry 
of Industry, Department of SSI, Agro and Rural Industries, Office of 
the Development Commissioner (Small Scale Industries), has an 
effect of treating MSSIDCL as a supplier for the purpose of claiming 
interest from the buyer, that is MSEB, with whom they have entered 
into a contract for the purpose of the 1993 Act. The liability to pay 
and the privity of contract in terms of the supply/purchase order 
dated 30.03.1995 is between MSSIDCL and SSPL. The contractual 
[2024] 3 S.C.R.  461
Snehadeep Structures Pvt. Limited v. Maharashtra Small Scale 
Industries Development Corporation Ltd.
relationship, rights and obligations inter se MSSIDCL and SSPL do 
not undergo any change.
15. On the question of liability under Section 5 as well, there is a dispute 
as it is accepted that the principal amount has been paid. A question 
would arise whether under Section 5, interest as compounded is to be 
treated as a principal amount. This aspect has not been considered 
in the award passed by the sole arbitrator, which has awarded 
compound interest on the interest element with monthly rest at 1.5 
times the Prime Lending Rate charged by the State Bank of India.
16. We are informed that certain payments were made by MSSIDCL 
and a substantial amount of over Rs.1.30 crores has been paid 
to/withdrawn by SSPL. It will be open to MSSIDCL to move an 
application under Section 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 
for restitution or execution, as it may be advised. MSSIDCL would 
be entitled to enforce the security in case SSPL does not pay or 
refund the said amount.
17. The appeal is dismissed in the above terms. However, there shall 
be no order as to costs.
Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of.
Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey  Result of the case: 
Appeal dismissed.